The 52 cards are shuffled and are distributed evenly between the four players (13 cards per player). 
The game of Hearts allows for cards to be exchanged in a certain order at the start of each round. They are as follows: 
Round 1: Each player must select 3 cards to give to the player on their left. 
Round 2: Each player must select 3 cards to give to the player on their right.
Round 3: Each player must select 3 cards to give to the player opposite them.
Round 4: The round starts without exchanging cards.
Round 5: Same as round 1 and the pattern follows. 

After the cards are exchanged, the user with 2♣ plays that card in the middle of the table. 
The next player is the player to the left and so on until all 4 players have played a card. This is known as a ‘trick’. 
The person who plays the highest ranked card, takes the cards. For example, if player 1 plays ‘2♣’, player 2 plays ‘K♣’, 
player 3 follows with ‘10♣’ and player 4 plays ‘A♣’, then player 4 takes the cards. 
Players must follow suit of the card that leads off the trick unless the player does not possess that card. 
The cards at the end of the trick are not usable for the rest of the round, but their point values are added to the user who collects them. 
Since Clubs ♣, Diamonds ♦ and Spades ♠ (except for Q♠) don’t have any points attributed to them, 
collecting these cards will not increase a player score. The player who wins the trick, leads off the next trick and so on until all 52 cards are used.
 
No point cards allowed in the first round: At the start of the game, none of the users can play the Q♠ or any Hearts ♥ cards. 
For example, if a round starts and one of the 4 players does not have the clubs, they can play any other suit cards which do not have any point values.
 
Hearts cannot lead till broken: After the first trick is completed, the player who wins the trick leads the next one with any card except for Hearts. 
If another player who is not leading the trick cannot follow suit, they can break the trick with any hearts card. 
For example, if the player leading the trick plays ‘9♣’, the next user plays ‘6♣’ 
and if the third player cannot follow suit (does not have a ♣ clubs card to continue the trick), 
they can play a card from any suit, even a Hearts ♥ card.

Shoot the moon: If at the end of the round, a player collects all the point value cards (All the ♥ cards and the Q♠), 
then the player has shot the moon. At the end of this round, the player who shot the moon has the choice to either remove 26 points from his score (if his score is above 26), or to increase the score of all the other players by 26. 
